Big O is a notation used to describe the computational complexity of an algorithm. 

Asymptotic notation is a mathematical tool that calculates the required time in terms of input size and does not require the execution of the code.

The computational complexity of an algorithm is split into two parts: time complexity and space complexity. 
    The time complexity of an algorithm is the amount of time the algorithm needs to run relative to the input size. 
    The space complexity of an algorithm is the amount of memory allocated by the algorithm when run relative to the input size.


Complexity is described by a function of variables that can change with the input. The most common variable is O(n), 
which usually describes the length of an input array or string. This function is wrapped by a capital O. 

Here are some example complexities:
O(n)
O(n2) // n to the power of 2
O(2n) // 2 to the power of n
O(logn)
O(n.m) // n times m
O(n+m)

These functions describe how the amount of operations/memory needed by the algorithm grows as the arguments tend to infinity. 
Because the variables are tending to infinity, constants are always ignored. That means that 
O(9999999n)=O(8n)=O(n)=O(n/500)=O(n)

Being able to analyze an algorithm and derive its time and space complexity is a crucial skill.

The best complexity possible is O(1), called "constant time" or "constant space". 
It means that the algorithm ALWAYS uses the same amount of resources, regardless of the input.

Note that a constant time complexity doesn't necessarily mean that an algorithm is fast O(5000000)=O(1)), 
it just means that its runtime is independent of the input size.

When talking about complexity, there are normally three cases:
    Best case scenario
    Average case
    Worst case scenario

Logarithmic time

A logarithm is the inverse operation to exponents. The time complexity O(logn) is called logarithmic time and is extremely fast. 
A common time complexity is O(n⋅logn), which is fast for most problems and also the time complexity of efficient sorting algorithms.
Typically, the base of the logarithm will be 2. This means that if your input is size n, then the algorithm will perform x operations, where 
2 power x = n. However, the base of the logarithm doesn't actually matter for big O, since all logarithms are related by a constant factor.
O(logn) means that somewhere in your algorithm, the input is being reduced by a percentage at every step. 

A good example of this is binary search, which is a searching algorithm that runs in O(logn) time. 
With binary search, we initially consider the entire input (n elements). After the first step, we only consider n / 2 elements. 
After the second step, we only consider n / 4 elements, and so on. 
At each step, we are reducing our search space by 50%, which gives us a logarithmic time complexity.